Fig3 rewrite1 (#175)
Klepac-Ceraj-Lab/Resonance: manuscript/main.tex

    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{assets/Figure3.png}
    \caption{
        Random forest models predict both concurrent and future measured cognitive function.
        Comparison of RF predictor importance versus linear models for children
        over 18 months (\textbf{A}).
        Colors represent whether the species belong to the group of
        top-important features that account for 60\% of the cumulative
        importance on the RF model, if that species was significant (q
        \textless{} 0.2) in linear models, both, or neither.
        Comparison of RF predictor importance for microbial features
        between concurrent and future cognitive function measure
        (\textbf{B}).
        Colors represent whether the species belong to the group of
        top-important features that account for 60\% of the cumulative
        importance on the RF model only for concurrent prediction,

>         only for the future prediction, or for both models.

Reviewer: This repeats 532-536. I think it's obvious, but you could also say "colored as in A" or something

Author: I do not think this is correct. A says
"Colors represent whether the species belong to the group of
        top-important features that account for 60\% of the cumulative
        importance on the RF model, **if that species was significant (q
        \textless{} 0.2) in linear models, both, or neither.**"

and B says
"Colors represent whether the species belong to the group of
        top-important features that account for 60\% of the cumulative
        importance on the RF model **only for concurrent prediction,
        only for the future prediction, or for both models.**"

so there is a diference. A compares two different measures for predicting the same thing, B compares the same measure for predicting two different things

Reviewer: Oh I see - glossed over that. Fine by me

        Features absent of one model are shown on the origin-aligned sideplots.
        Distribution of ages for each microbiome sampling - cognitive assesment dyad (\textbf{C}).
        Blue violin plot shows distribution of sampling age,

>         while red violin plot shows distribution of asessment age.

Reviewer: I think we should probably make this one grayscale, since the colors are identical to x ticks

Author: both violins?

Reviewer: Yeah - the color doesn't add any meaning

Species that were important in RF overlapped with those that were
significant when testing the relationship with LMs (Figure
3A-B, Table S1A-B); Both analysis identified 
\textit{F. prausnitzii}, % F. prausz was mentioned before, ~ line 395
\textit{E. eligens}, % E. eligens was mentioned before, ~ line 395
\textit{Parasutterella excrementihominis}, and % Not mentioned before

> \textit{Alistipes obesi} as important % A. obesi was mentioned before, ~ lines 120, 390

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\textit{A. obesi} as important % A. obesi was mentioned before, ~ lines 120, 390
```

right?

could predict \textit{future} cognitive performance (Figure 3B, D).
Models were consistently able to learn microbial species that are associated
with cognitive performance at a future visit

> (mean time between visits: 21.5 months [sd = 9.9 months] (Figure 3C),

Reviewer: Is the time between visits normally distributed? Median time / 5%/95% percentiles might make more sense to report?

Author: Will change. Just for reference, the percentiles: 5th = 5.6; 50th = 21.9; 95th = 37.7

representations of the gut microbiome (taxonomic profiles, functional
profiles encoded as ECs) would behave, with and without the addition of
demographics (sex and maternal education as a proxy of socioeconomic
status) on participants from different age groups. Age (in months) was

> provided as a covariate for all models (Table S3).

Reviewer: This is no longer true?

Author: It is. The sentence was moved to the end of the pargraph, line ~1077

> For the concurrent cognitive assessment score preditions,
> all viable datapoints containing 
> age at data collection, demographics, stool metagenomics and cognitive assessment were employed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the concurrent cognitive assessment score predictions,
we included all visits where age at data collection, demographics (maternal education, %anything else?
), stool metagenomics and cognitive assessment were collected.
For subjects that had multiple visits matching the selection criteria, the % first? last?
visit was used.
```

Author: Should I remove lines 1071-1072, "For the concurrent prediction experiments, when multiple viable longitudinal samples were present, the single earliest viable datapoint inside the age range of the experiment was considered.">> This makes them redundant imho

Reviewer: Either way

The cognitive assessments were collected as either composite scores

> (for the experiments in Figure \textbf{3}) or, when available, segregate scores on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(for the experiments in Figure \textbf{3}) or, when available, subscores on the
```

Mullen Scales of Early Learning ( Figure \textbf{4 A-B}: Expressive Language, Gross Motor and Visual Reception).
For the concurrent prediction experiments, when multiple viable longitudinal samples were present,
the single earliest viable datapoint inside the age range of the experiment was considered.
For the future prediction experiments, every demographics-complete subject
contributed a single datapoint built from the combination of
the latest metagenome collected within the stool collection time range and
the latest future cognitive assessment on the assesment time range.

> Age (in months) was provided as a covariate for all models (Table S3).

Reviewer: Add a sentence about what happened when multiple visits *could* have been used.

Author: I would argue that the condition "latest in interval A ... latest in interval B" will never satisfy more than one pair of visits, but I will make that change.

Reviewer: Oh, I see. Yeah, that's fine.
